# UTS-IT-Operations-Internships

## In business or technical terms describe your understanding of continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD)? What are some tools that are used for this and why are they used.

From what I have learnt through my undergrad degree, Continuous integration (CI) is a coding methodology and software development practice to implement our code every time into the main repository branch. Whenever a team member share their code changes to the base in GitHub, it will trigger continuous integration to rebuild the whole project checking if the code works as it is after each changes. Then it also validates each integration through automated testing to detect errors as quickly as possible. This automation approach helps a team build organized software more rapidly and reduce integration problems. It also benefits by improving code consistency by committing more frequently to enhance team collaboration. Continuous Delivery (CD) is a software development discipline where code changes are automatically qualified for release to selected environments (development, production and testing environment). It ensures the software can be entirely reliable for release and allows developers to verify the software updates through multiple tests before deploying it to the customers. In the software development terms, I understood CI/CD as the automation which enables incremental changes of code from developers’ system to be delivered quickly to production with reliability and efficiency. I have had previous experience with Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (CI/C), from Advanced Software Development building Real Estate Auction Management Software with a group using Azure DevOps. CI is an important element of the DevOps approach to building and releasing software which promotes collaborative, automation and short feedback cycles. 


There are many CI/CD tools such as Buddy, Jenkins, GitLab, Buildbot, IBM Urban etb and multiple tools such as  Jenkins, AWS Code Deploy, and GitLab are used in projects.  Among them, I am familiar with the Azure Pipeline tool, as I have used it in one of my previous group projects. It is Microsoft's cloud-based infrastructure platform. Azure Pipeline connects continuous integration and continuous delivery to test, build and deliver the code to any destination. I have also heard about Jenkins- one of the most popular tools on the market which provide multiple plugins to assist in building and automating any projects. Jenkins also supports deploying the code with continuous delivery. Continuous integration and delivery (CI/CD) allow IT companies and organizations to deliver software more efficiently. It also encourages the process of getting an application to the market faster, continuously providing the code to the production and securing the ongoing flow of new updates and bugs fixed through the most effective delivery approach. Using CI/CD pipeline could have potential risks as the application reaches the market in a short time. However, being able to test the software either with system testers or even with real users at any stage of the product allow the developers to validate the development process before spending so much time on a feature that might not solve a problem for the users. Automated testing guarantees to perform regularly, enhances the reliability and quality of the code. Not only it improves the code quality but also helps to fix bugs more quickly. A CI/CD pipeline provides better collaboration and communication between the development and operation teams. Then, all the members are able to know the development process and cooperate with each other. With the availability of multiple options (CI/CD tools) present, selecting the compatible tools are challenging and it is important to think about the requirements of the project, the parameters and each tool’s capabilities and limitations.
